# COMP455

## Lab2


Note: for this assignment you are encouraged to watch the video I posted ( Part 2, Jaccard Index calculation) 

and them this video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96WOGPUgMfw&ab_channel=MiningMassiveDatasets 

before attempting this lab.

### Part A (3 marks)

Develop a python project to calculate the Jaccard similarity of these two sets:

 

`A: {19,2,14,16,19,1,7,15,16,9,21,6,2,17,16,11,3,8,24}`

`B: {12,2,14,5,20,11,13,14,10,2982,9,24,16,22,110,21,12,5,15}`

and display the calculated value on the screen 

#### Question A : what is the Jaccard similarity number for sets A and B?

 

### Part B (7 marks )

Now imagine sets A and B, each having one million integer random numbers and each separately stored in a file on your local machine, in A.txt and B.txt respectively. Assume each number is placed in a new line in those text files, just like the previous lab. 

Develop a python project to calculate the Jaccard similarity with acceptable accuracy for such large files.  Notice I said acceptable because you cannot load all of them in memory. 

 
### Remarks

The one million random integer numbers are generated by `random.randint(1, 10000000)` (between one and ten million) which generates random numbers from a uniform distribution. That means all integer numbers in that range have almost the same probability of being generated. See this link for more info: https://docs.python.org/3.1/library/random.html    
### Steps
 - Phase 1
  - In your code start the random seed from `random.seed(10)`
  - Generate one million random numbers using `random.randint(1, 10000000)` and store them in `A.txt` file 
  - Generate one million random numbers using `random.randint(1, 10000000)` and store them in `B.txt` file

 
 - Phase 2
  - Now write a function `genJaccard(f1,f2)` which gets two parameters,f1, f2 which are the file names with their full path and returns a good estimation of Jaccard similarity for the two sets.

 
 - Phase 3

  - Make a new function main() to invoke  genJaccard(f1,f2) by passing the A.txt and B.txt you generated and display the result on console  

#### Question B, what is the Jaccard similarity number 
Rules to follow: 

 

 - Rules ( to follow strictly, otherwise you will not get any mark)

    - Rule1: you cannot use array ( or collection, or dictionary or objects or anything else) of size more than 1000 

    - Rule2: you cannot read the entire file, load numbers into memory (in an array or something) and then start the process.

    - Rule3: treat the A.txt and B.txt as if it is too big to fit in memory all at once; treat it like a 100GB file. I did not ask you to generate 100 billion numbers and store them in a file as it would take hours to create that file and the file size would be too large to fit in your hard drive. 

    - Rule4: In the implementation of your genJaccard() you cannot assume that the length of the files is given to your functions, or it is exactly one million lines. Your function has to work with any files with any length. 

 

  

 

Deliverable:

Please deliver two python source files ( not the entire project libraries etc) in two separate py files ( do not zip)

Provide the answers of question A and B at the comment section ( do not attach a text file, just type in a text), (seen image below)  

Please name the python source of partA as Lab2Team#partA.py

Please name the python source of partA as Lab2Team#partB.py

e.g.  Lab2Team12partA.py

 

At the top of each source file put the team member names and student IDs please in comment.

e.g.

#John Green 12345678919 (# is used to insert comments in python)

Note:

-2 mark will be deducted if the instructions for delivering your submission were not fully followed (note: you are not required to submit your A.txt or B.txt, nor need to write a report, do not attach any pdf; for any extra file you will lose mark)

-1 mark will be deducted for each day late submission 

Mark breakdown for Part B:

Up to - 4 marks will be deducted for wrong code,

Up to -3 marks will be deducted for wrong answers 

U to 6 marks will be deducted if rules were not followed